April 2026 newsletter (#700)
maplibre/maplibre.github.io: src/content/news/2026-05-02-maplibre-newsletter-april-2026/index.mdx

draft: false
---

import flutter_examples from "./flutter_examples.png";
import flutter_hover from "./flutter_hover.png";
import { Image } from "astro:assets";
import ReleaseTable from "../../../components/ReleaseTable.astro";
import Announcement from "../../../components/Announcement.astro";

export const nativeReleases = [
  {
    name: "Android",
    versions: [
      {
        label: "13.1.0",
        url: "https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases/tag/android-v13.1.0",
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    name: "iOS",
    versions: [
      {
        label: "6.25.1",
        url: "https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases/tag/ios-v6.25.1",
      },
      {
        label: "6.26.0",
        url: "https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/releases/tag/ios-v6.26.0",
      },
    ],
  },
];

Welcome to the April 2026 edition of the MapLibre Newsletter! This month, we have exciting updates across all our projects. Key milestones include overhauls for React Native and Flutter, the transition toward MapLibre GL JS v6, and foundational research into a native MLT 3D tile format.

## 📱 MapLibre Native

> [Alex Cristici](https://github.com/alexcristici) improved the resilience of MapLibre Native when running out of memory (see [PR](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/pull/4178)). Additionally, [Sargun Vohra](https://github.com/sargunv), author of [MapLibre Compose](https://maplibre.org/maplibre-compose/), is working on a C ABI(Application Binary Interface) for MapLibre Native (see [repository](https://github.com/sargunv/maplibre-native-ffi)), which could serve as a strong foundation for both new and existing platforms.

Reviewer: There have been some developments.

```suggestion
[Alex Cristici](https://github.com/alexcristici) improved the resilience of MapLibre Native when the system runs out of memory (see [PR](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native/pull/4178)).

There now is a new experimental C API for MapLibre Native, which can serve as a foundation for new platforms. See the [new repository](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre-native-ffi) as well as the [onboarding discussion](https://github.com/maplibre/maplibre/issues/500). This is the work of [Sargun Vohra](https://github.com/sargunv), who also used what he learned when creating [MapLibre Compose](https://maplibre.org/maplibre-compose/) for the new C API.
```
